---
layout: post
title: "Olive Trees in Palestine"
date: 2025-03-10
categories: [essays]
---
What I want is cutting off the heads of those who cut down our olive trees in Palestine. Nowadays, this is one of my motivations that fuels my hatred toward the Israeli terrorist organization, and it fuels me to study hard, work hard, and not waste any moment. The Israeli terrorist organization has cut down more than one million Palestinian olive trees in the last six decades. I love olive trees, though not more than the lives of Palestinians, the land of Palestine, or Al-Aqsa. But today, I want to honor olive trees as a part of Palestinian identity through my course of Palestine. Maybe I am explaining the process of forming my ideology on Palestine, but I try and need to focus particularly on Palestine.
Olive trees are so beautiful. I love every part of olive trees. We have a lot of olive trees in our field. Before planting olive plants, we prepare the land for rooting the olive tree. Our land is so rocky that we need to clean those huge rocks with the help of construction machinery. This is not a very fun thing to do. After that, we dig holes and plant our olives. Olives need at least 10 to 15 years to mature and become smallish trees that can bear olive fruit. In these 15 years, we care for the trees without any benefits. There isn’t much effort, but we care for them like a child.
After the olive trees mature and begin to bear fruit, we harvest them. In my country, the harvesting season is around October or November, as this is when the olives become oily. We usually pick them while they are still green, before they turn black. The harvest is a family effort; we all gather together to do the job. It is both an enjoyable and proud moment — after caring for these trees for 10 to 15 years, we finally see the fruits of our labor.
We use olives mainly for olive oil, and we use some of them for eating at breakfast. I love both so much. I love dipping hot bread in olive oil and eating it with brined olives. Sometimes, I dream that I could live until death just with this combo. It is so healthy, so delicious, and so light. I love everything about olives.
But suddenly, one morning, you wake up and find that all of your olive trees are uprooted. All of them. All of your 100 olive trees. Next year, you will not have olive oil or olives to eat with hot bread. All of your 15 years of hard work is gone. Some of these trees were passed down from your ancestors and could be 100 years old. They killed them too. You feel anger, deep anger. You feel that you can kill — not just kill, but pour lava into the mouths of those who committed this murder. You know that if someone did this mistakenly, you could easily forget, but they intentionally killed 100 olive trees.
This has happened to 80,000 families in Palestine. An old man — 60–70 years old — who spent all his life taking care of his olive trees because it is his job, his income, his food. One morning, suddenly, Zionist terrorists come and destroy all of your life. You can’t prevent them; they are armed. They cut down your olive trees. Your wife is crying and shouting. Your sons are thinking of resisting this.
Resistance has reason and purpose. I am proud of helping the resistance.
For this reason, we will cut off the heads of those who cut down our olive trees.
